>> Stewart: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, MARCH 19: THE
CAPTURED PARIS ATTACKS SUSPECT
IS FORMALLY CHARGED WITH
"PARTICIPATION IN TERRORIST
MURDER"; FOLLOWING THIS WEEK'S
DEAL BETWEEN THE E.U. AND
TURKEY, WHAT'S NEXT FOR REFUGEES
STILL IN GREECE; AND IN SOUTH
AFRICA, THE GOVERNMENT TRIES TO
REGULATE TRADITIONAL HEALERS.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
OF LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
ALISON STEWART.
>> Stewart: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
ONE OF THE KEY SUSPECTS IN LAST
NOVEMBER'S PARIS TERRORIST
ATTACKS AND THE FIRST TO BE
CAPTURED ALIVE IS IN CUSTODY IN
BELGIUM.
THIS FOLLOWING A DRAMATIC POLICE
RAID AND SHOOTOUT YESTERDAY IN
THE BRUSSELS NEIGHBORHOOD OF
MOLENBEEK.
SALAH ABDESLAM WAS RELEASED FROM
THE HOSPITAL THIS MORNING WHERE
HE WAS BEING TREATED FOR A LEG
WOUND.
ACCORDING TO THE PARIS
PROSECUTOR, ABDESLAM HAS TOLD
BELGIAN INVESTIGATORS THAT HE
HAD INTENDED TO BLOW HIMSELF UP
DURING THE ATTACKS BUT CHANGED
HIS MIND.
THE PROSECUTOR SAID THE
SUSPECT'S INITIAL STATEMENTS
SHOULD BE TREATED WITH CAUTION.
THE 26-YEAR-OLD, A FRENCH
CITIZEN, AND ANOTHER SUSPECT
SEIZED IN THE SAME RAID WERE
FORMALLY CHARGED TODAY WITH
"TERRORIST MURDERS" FOR THEIR
INVOLVEMENT IN THE PARIS
ATTACKS.
FRANCE IS SEEKING HIS IMMEDIATE
EXTRADITION FROM BELGIUM TO
STAND TRIAL.
ABDESLAM'S LAWYER SAYS HIS
CLIENT IS COOPERATING WITH
BELGIAN POLICE BUT WILL FIGHT
EXTRADITION.
INVESTIGATORS SAY THEY HOPE
QUESTIONING HIM WILL YIELD MORE
INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISLAMIC
STATE MILITANT NETWORK AND ITS
ROLE IN THE NOVEMBER ATTACKS.
THE BELGIAN GOVERNMENT IS
KEEPING THE COUNTRY'S TERROR
ALERT LEVEL AT A THREE OUT OF
FOUR.
>> (translated): WE REALIZE
THAT YESTERDAY WE MIGHT HAVE WON
AN IMPORTANT BATTLE FOR
DEMOCRACY, FOR FREEDOM, RESPECT,
TOLERANCE, VALUES AND ALSO
PROBABLY FOR JUSTICE, BUT WE
REALIZE THAT WE HAVE NOT WON THE
WAR.
WE KNOW VERY WELL THAT THERE IS
STILL A LOT OF WORK TO DO.
>> Stewart: 130 PEOPLE WERE
KILLED IN THE PARIS ATTACKS AND
DOZENS WERE INJURED.
JOINING ME NOW FOR MORE ON THE
ONGOING INVESTIGATION VIA SKYPE
FROM PARIS IS ASSOCIATED PRESS
CORRESPONDENT LORI HINNANT.
LORI, LET'S TALK ABOUT WHERE
THEY FOUND THE SUSPECT.
WHAT EVIDENCE BROUGHT
INVESTIGATORS TO MOLENBEEK?
>> WELL, THE FIRST CLUE REALLY
THAT CAME ON TUESDAY, WHEN
POLICE CARRY OUT WHAT THEY
THOUGHT WAS GOING TO BE A
ROUTINE SEARCH OF AN APARTMENT
AND INSTEAD OPENED THE DOOR TO
GUNFIRE.
AND AS ONE MAN FIRED ON THEM,
TWO OTHERS FLED, POSSIBLY THREE,
AND IT IS BELIEVED ONE OF THEM
MAY HAVE BEEN AN AN, THEY NO, AN
SLAM, THEY ARE NOT ENTIRELY SURE
BUT THEY KNOW THEY CAME UPON
SOMETHING ENTIRELY UNSUSPECTED.
THAT LED THEM TO THE HIDEOUT IN
MOLENBEEK, THE SAME NEIGHBORHOOD
OF BRUSSELS WHERE ABDESLAM WAS
RAISED, DURING THE FOUR MONTH
INVESTIGATION CAN YOU TELL US A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
COORDINATION BETWEEN THE BELGIAN
AND FRENCH AUTHORITIES?
>> WELL, THE TWO STATES HAVE
BEEN COORDINATING VERY CLOSELY,
AND THERE WERE ACTUALLY FRENCH
POLICE ON THE TEAM THAT RAIDED
THE APARTMENT ON TUESDAY.
>> DO WE KNOW ANY DETAILS ABOUT
ABDESLAM'S ROLE IN THE ORIGINAL
ATTACKS?
>> HIS ROLE HAS BEEN SOMETHING
OF A MYSTERY.
WHAT HE DO KNOW IS JUST
ANNOUNCED TODAY BY THE PARIS
PROSECUTOR WHO SAID THAT
ABDESLAM HAS TOLD INVESTIGATORS
THAT HE WAS SUPPOSED TO BLOW
HIMSELF UP AT FRANCE'S NATIONAL
STADIUM ALONG WITH THREE OTHER
SUICIDE ATTACKERS BUT HE HAD
SECOND THOUGHTS.
WE KNOW THAT HE WAS KEY IN ALL
OF THE LOGISTICS AND DROVE
THOUSANDS OF MILES ACROSS EUROPE
OVER THE SUMMER AND EARLY FALL
TO PUT THE TEAM INTO PLATES THAT
CARRIED TOUT ATTACK.
>> WHAT CAN YOU TELL US OF THE
SECOND PERSON THAT WAS TAKEN
INTO CUSTODY?
>> WE KNOW ALMOST NOTHING ABOUT
THE SECOND PERSON TAKEN INTO
CUSTODY, OTHER THAN HE LIKES HOW
ABDESLAM WAS CHARGED WITH
TERRORISM RELATED OFFENSES
TODAY.
>> ARE THERE ANY INDICATIONS
WHERE THE INVESTIGATION WILL GO
FROM HERE?
>> WELL, RIGHT NOW, THE FRENCH
AND THE BELGIAN AUTHORITIES ARE
SORTING OUT AN EXTRADITION
REQUEST, FRANCE WOULD VERY MUCH
LIKE TO HAVE HIM IN PARIS TO
ANSWER QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
ATTACK THAT KILLED 130 PEOPLE
AND STILL HAVE LEFT THE CITY
VERY, VERY TENSE.
BELGIAN AUTHORITIES AND FRENCH
ALIKE BOTH WANT TO KNOW WHO
SALAH'S NETWORK IS AND MORE THE
LOGISTICS OF HOW HE WAS KEPT
HIDDEN IN MOLENBEEK FOR SO LONG
AND HOW ELSE MAY HAVE BEEN
INVOLVED IN THE ATTACKS, EITHER
THE PLANNING OR POSSIBLY EVEN
CARRYING THEM OUT, WHO ELSE
MIGHT REMAIN AT LARGE, BECAUSE
THEY SAY THAT THEY ARE QUITE
CERTAIN THAT OTHERS INVOLVED IN
THE ATTACK OR WITH KNOWLEDGE OF
ITS PLANNING ARE STILL AT LARGE.
>> LORI HINNANT FROM THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS, THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Stewart: A PLANE CARRYING 62
PEOPLE CRASHED AND BURST INTO
FLAMES IN SOUTHERN RUSSIA EARLY
THIS MORNING, KILLING ALL 55
PASSENGERS AND SEVEN CREW
MEMBERS ON BOARD.
MOST OF THOSE KILLED WERE
RUSSIANS.
THE "FLYDUBAI" 737 WAS
APPROACHING THE RUSSIAN CITY OF
ROSTOV-ON-DON FROM DUBAI WHEN IT
NOSE-DIVED ABOUT 800 FEET SHORT
OF THE RUNWAY.
THIS CLOSED-CIRCUIT VIDEO SHOWS
THE MOMENT THE PLANE CRASHED AS
IT MADE ITS SECOND LANDING
ATTEMPT.
OFFICIALS ARE STILL TRYING TO
DETERMINE WHAT CAUSED THE CRASH,
BUT ONE OFFICIAL SAID A LIKELY
FACTOR WAS NEAR-HURRICANE-FORCE
GUSTS OF WIND.
OFFICIALS SAID BOTH OF THE
PLANE'S FLIGHT RECORDERS WERE
RECOVERED UNDAMAGED.
THERE WAS YET ANOTHER DEADLY
BOMBING TODAY IN TURKEY.
A SUICIDE BOMBER ATTACKED
ISTANBUL'S MAIN PEDESTRIAN
SHOPPING STREET, KILLING HIMSELF
AND AT LEAST FOUR OTHER PEOPLE
AND INJURING DOZENS OF OTHERS.
THE BLAST OCCURRED OUTSIDE OF A
LOCAL GOVERNMENT OFFICE
SURROUNDED BY COFFEE SHOPS,
RESTAURANTS AND TOURISTS.
NO CLAIM OF RESPONSIBILITY YET
FOR TODAY'S ATTACK.
THIS IS THE FOURTH SUICIDE
BOMBING IN TURKEY THIS YEAR.
A BOMBING A WEEK AGO IN THE
CAPITAL OF ANKARA LEFT 37 PEOPLE
DEAD, INCLUDING THE TWO BOMBERS.
A KURDISH MILITANT GROUP CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THAT ATTACK.
UNDER AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE
EUROPEAN UNION AND TURKEY THAT
GOES INTO EFFECT TOMORROW, MOST
REFUGEES ARRIVING IN GREECE FROM
TURKEY ARE EXPECTED TO BE SENT
BACK.
IN EXCHANGE, EUROPE WILL ACCEPT
SOME SYRIAN REFUGEES FROM TURKEY
AND PROVIDE BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
TO HELP PAY FOR IT ALL.
GREEK OFFICIALS SAY THE
LOGISTICS OF THE NEW AGREEMENT
WILL TAKE TIME TO IMPLEMENT,
INVOLVING THOUSANDS OF
TRANSLATORS AND OTHER EXPERTS.
EARLIER THIS MONTH, MACEDONIA
CLOSED ITS BORDER, LEAVING
ROUGHLY 46,000 MIGRANTS AND
REFUGEES STRANDED IN GREECE.
JOINING ME NOW FROM GREECE TO
DISCUSS THE MIGRANT CONDITIONS
IS ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER
DEREK GATOPOULOS.
DEREK, STARTING TOMORROW,
MIGRANTS ARRIVING ILLEGALLY IN
GREECE WILL BE SENT BACK TO
TURKEY.
HOW IS THIS GOING TO BE
IMPLEMENTED AND WHAT ARE SOME OF
THE COMPLICATIONS?
>> WELL, THE MAIN CAUSE OF THE
COMPLICATION IS THAT THEY
HAVEN'T DECIDED ON A MECHANISM
TO SEND THEM BACK YET AND THEY
JUST FINISHED-- SOME BETWEEN THE
PRIME MINISTERS AND THE
MINISTERS INVOLVED IN THE CRISIS
AND THEY STILL HAVEN'T COME UP
WITH A WAY TO SEND THE MIGRANTS
BACK.
WHAT GREECE HAS PROPOSED THEY
USE PRIVATELY CHARTED BOATS THAT
WOULD BE ESCORTED, BUT
APPARENTLY ALL SIDES STILL HAVE
TO AGREE ON THE METHOD.
>> Stewart: AS FOR MIGRANTS
AND REFUGEES THAT ARE TALE IN
GREECE RIGHT NOW, ARE CONDITIONS
TENSE ON THE GROUND WITH THIS
NEWS?
ARE THEY AWARE OF WHAT IS
HAPPENING?
>> MOST PEOPLE ARE AWARE.
EMOTIONS, TO BE FAIR, ARE MIXED
SOME PEOPLE ARE VERY
DISAPPOINTED THAT THEY WON'T BE
ABLE TO TRAVEL TO EUROPE
IMMEDIATELY.
AND THAT THEY WILL BE STUCK HERE
FOR MORE THAN A YEAR PERHAPS.
ON THE OTHER HAND, THERE IS ALSO
RELIEF THAT THEY WON'T BE SENT
BACK.
SO THE PEOPLE ALREADY IN GREECE
WILL NOT BE DEPORTED, HAVING
SAID THAT THERE WAS THE
DEMONSTRATION JUST FINISHED IN
ATHENS AND SEVERAL, ATHENS
PEOPLE WERE PROTESTING THE E.U.
DEALING.
>> Stewart: THAT IS
INTERESTING, I WAS ASKING ABOUT
GREECE CITIZENS.
IS THIS SEEN AS A POSITIVE OR
NEGATIVE GIVEN GREECE OWN
FINANCIAL ISSUES?
>> WELL, IT IS NOT SOMETHING
THAT HAS HAPPENED OVERNIGHT, SO
PEOPLE HAVE GOTTEN USED TO THE
FACT THERE IS A REFUGEE CRISIS
AND SEEING PEOPLE FROM SYRIA IN
THE STREETS IN MOST CITIES IN
GREECE, SO IT IS HOT A NEW
PHENOMENON.
ON THE OTHER HAND, FOR SURE IT
IS A STRAIN ON THE ECONOMY, SO
AGAIN, IT IS A MIXED PICTURE,
THERE IS A LOT OF GOOD WILL
TOWARD REFUGEES BUT ALSO FEAR
THAT THE COUNTRY'S RECOVERY WILL
BE EVEN SLOWER THAN EXPECTED.
>> Stewart: AS THE E.U. IS
CLAMPING DOWN ON MIGRANTS AND
REFUGEES COMING INTO EUROPE, YOU
HAVE PEOPLE WHO ARE SOMEWHAT
STUCK IN THE MIDDLE, CAN'T GET
TO FAMILY MEMBERS WHO MAY HAVE
MADE IT TO GERMANY, WHERE IS
THIS HAPPENING AND HOW ARE
CONDITIONS FOR THOSE PEOPLE?
>> WELL, PEOPLE ARE STRAGGLING
ALL ALONG THE ROUTE,
TO BE FAIR, BECAUSE THE ROUTE
CLOSED ABOUT ONE MONTH AGO AND
CLOSED COMPLETELY A COUPLE OF
WEEKS AGO, BUT MOST OF THOSE
PEOPLE ARE STRANDED IN GREECE,
ABOUT 50,000, NEARLY 50,000 OF
THEM AND EVEN IF THEY DO GET A
RELOCATION PLACE THEY MAY NOT
GET SENT TO WHERE THEIR FAMILIES
ARE BECAUSE THEY DON'T GET TO
CHOOSE, YOU COULD HAVE A BROTHER
IN GERMANY AND THEN BE RELOCATED
IN FRANCE LET'S SAY.
>> Stewart: WE SHOULD TALK
ABOUT THE FACT THERE ARE GEO
POLITICS INVOLVED IN THIS IN
TERMS OF TURKEY'S DESIRE TO BE
PART OF THE E.U.
>> TURKEY'S POINT OF VIEW, THEY
ARE ONE OF THE BIGGEST COUNTRIES
TO ACCEPT REFUGEES IN THE WORLD,
SO THEY HAVE MORE THAN THE
2 MILLION, AND OF COURSE SOME
FROM THEIR POINT OF VIEW THEY
HAVE ALREADY A VERY UNFAIR
BURDEN OF THE REFUGEE CRISIS.
SO THEY WANT SOMETHING IN RETURN
FOR TAKING THE REFUGEES BACK
UNDER THIS AGREEMENT.
AND WHAT THEY WANTED WAS FOR
MOST OF ALL FREE TRAVEL FOR
THEIR CITIZENS INTO THE E.U.
WITHOUT VISAS AND WHICH LIKELY
THEY WILL GET IN THE NEXT THREE
OR FOUR MONTHS AND ALSO WANT
ACCELERATED PROCESS TO JOIN THE
E.U., WHICH THEY DIDN'T GET WHAT
THEY HOPED FOR, BUT THEY GOT
SOMETHING.
>> Stewart: DEREK GATOPOULOS
REPORTING FROM GREECE, THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Stewart: DOZENS OF PEOPLE
PROTESTING A CAMPAIGN APPEARANCE
BY REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
FRONTRUNNER DONALD TRUMP BLOCKED
A MAIN HIGHWAY IN SUBURBAN
PHOENIX TODAY, BACKING UP
TRAFFIC FOR MILES.
THE PROTESTERS PARKED CARS AND
WAVED BANNERS ON THE HIGHWAY
LEADING TO THE SITE OF A TRUMP
RALLY.
IN NEW YORK CITY, THOUSANDS OF
ANTI-TRUMP PROTESTERS TURNED OUT
IN CENTRAL PARK AND AT TRUMP
TOWER, WHERE THE CANDIDATE
LIVES.
POLICE MADE A NUMBER OF ARRESTS.
ARIZONA HAS PRIMARIES FOR BOTH
PARTIES ON TUESDAY.
IN OTHER CONTESTS THAT DAY, UTAH
HOLDS CAUCUSES FOR BOTH PARTIES
WHILE IDAHO HAS DEMOCRATIC
CAUCUSES.
AND A NEW CREW HAS JUST ARRIVED
AT THE INTERNATIONAL SPACE
STATION.
THE SOYEZ SPACE CAPSULE CARRYING
A NASA ASTRONAUT AND TWO RUSSIAN
COSMONAUTS DOCKED TODAY AT THE
STATION, WHERE THEY WILL SPEND
THE NEXT SIX MONTHS.
THE THREE MEN ARE REPLACING A
CREW THAT INCLUDED ASTRONAUT
SCOTT KELLY, WHO RETURNED TO
EARTH ON MARCH 1 AFTER A YEAR AT
THE ORBITING LABORATORY.
IT IS EXPECTED THAT ASTRONAUT
JEFF WILLIAMS WILL BREAK
KELLY'S AMERICAN RECORD FOR MOST
CUMULATIVE DAYS SPENT IN SPACE
WITH 534 DAYS OVER FOUR
MISSIONS.
FOR MORE ON THESE STORIES AND
OTHER NEWS OF THE DAY, FOLLOW US
ON OUR FACEBOOK PAGE AT
www.facebook.com/newshour.
OVER THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS, THE
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION HAS
BEEN WORKING TO DEVELOP POLICIES
FOR TRADITIONAL MEDICINE AS PART
OF ITS EFFORT TO KEEP
POPULATIONS ACROSS THE GLOBE
HEALTHY.
IT'S A MOVE THAT RECOGNIZES THAT
MILLIONS AROUND THE WORLD STILL
USE THIS FORM OF MEDICINE AS
THEIR PRIMARY SOURCE OF
HEALTHCARE.
IN AFRICA, AN ESTIMATED 80% OF
THE POPULATION VISIT TRADITIONAL
HEALERS TO SOLVE ALL KINDS OF
AILMENTS.
THE W.H.O. EFFORT AIMS TO OBTAIN
MORE SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE ABOUT
THE SAFETY AND QUALITY OF THE
PRACTICE.
AS SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT MARTIN
SEEMUNGAL REPORTS, SOUTH AFRICA
IS TRYING TO REGULATE
TRADITIONAL HEALERS.
>> Reporter: A VOICE FROM AN
ANCESTOR IS SPEAKING THROUGH A
SANGOMA, A TRADITIONAL FAITH
HEALER, IN SOUTH AFRICA.
IT IS A WIDELY HELD BELIEF,
ESPECIALLY IN THE RURAL AREAS OF
THIS COUNTRY, THAT SANGOMAS
COMMUNICATE WITH THE DEAD TO
HELP THE LIVING.
ZANDILE NKOSI IS A 41-YEAR-OLD
SANGOMA WHO SAYS SHE'S HAD THE
GIFT SINCE SHE WAS TEN-YEARS-OLD
BUT STARTED PRACTICING ONLY
SEVEN YEARS AGO.
SHE SAYS HER ANCESTORS' VOICES
GUIDE HER SESSIONS WITH PATIENTS
WHO SEE HER FOR PHYSICAL
AILMENTS AND COUNSELING.
A SANGOMA'S MAIN TOOL IS
"THROWING THE BONES"-- ANIMAL
BONES, SHELLS AND SOMETIMES
OTHER ARTICLES.
THE HEALERS AND THEIR PATIENTS
BELIEVE HOW THE BONES LAND IS
INFLUENCED BY ANCESTORS WHO"
SPEAK" THROUGH THE BONES.
>> IF YOU WOULD HAVE GONE TO A
WESTERN DOCTOR, THE DOCTOR WOULD
TAKE AN X-RAY.
THIS IS MY TOOL TO ASCERTAIN
WHAT'S WRONG WITH HER.
>> Reporter: PATIENT THEMBI
MALULEKE SAYS THESE BELIEFS ARE
AN IMPORTANT PART OF HER AFRICAN
CULTURE.
>> WHEN PEOPLE BELIEVE IN
ARCHANGELS AND ANGEL GABRIEL, AS
AFRICANS BEFORE CHRISTIANITY,
THERE WAS US AND OUR ANCESTORS.
FOR THEM, THOSE ARE OUR
ARCHANGELS, AND IT'S OUR DIRECT
LINK TO GOD.
>> THIS IS THE BONE THAT
IDENTIFIES THEMBI, AND THEMBI
HAS A SERIOUS RELATIONSHIP WITH
SOMEBODY.
THE BONE IS SAYING SHE IS IN A
HAPPY RELATIONSHIP, SHE IS
CONTENT, THEY ARE BOTH CONTENT.
IF THEY WERE NOT HAPPY, THEMBI'S
BONE WOULD HAVE SAT LIKE THIS.
IT MEANS "I AM NOT HAPPY."
NOW, THEMBI'S BONE IS LIKE THIS,
"SHE IS HAPPY."
>> Reporter: WESTERN MEDICINE IS
READILY AVAILABLE IN SOUTH
AFRICA, AND HEALTH CARE HERE IS
AMONG THE BEST ON THE CONTINENT.
STILL, AN ENORMOUS NUMBER OF
PEOPLE SEEK OUT TRADITIONAL
HEALERS.
SANGOMA KHAUKI MAADA HAS BEEN
THROWING THE BONES FOR 15 YEARS
IN A VILLAGE NEAR SOUTH AFRICA'S
BORDER WITH ZIMBABWE.
>> A LOT OF TIMES, IT'S BAD
NEWS-- LIKE, YOU GET A
PREMONITION OF SOMETHING BAD
WILL HAPPEN.
BUT YOU HAVE TO BE VERY TACTFUL
AS TO NOT BLUR THE LINES OF
TRUTH AND REALLY TRYING TO HURT
PEOPLE BUT DO IT IN A MANNER
THAT SORT OF TAKES CARE OF THEIR
SPIRIT AS WELL.
>> Reporter: TO TREAT PATIENTS,
A SANGOMA WILL OFTEN PRESCRIBE
TRADITIONAL MEDICINE KNOWN AS
MUTI, LIKE THESE HERBS AND
ANIMAL BONES GROUND INTO POWDER.
>> THIS HAS BEEN COMING FROM OUR
FOREFATHERS.
YOU KNOW, THEY DIDN'T HAVE
HOSPITALS THEN, AND THEY DIDN'T
HAVE DOCTORS, BUT THEY USED
TRADITIONAL HEALERS TO
ADMINISTER HEALTH PROBLEMS.
SO, YES, THIS COMES A LONG WAY
AND IS STILL EFFECTIVE TODAY.
>> Reporter: MALUSI IS A NEW
SANGOMA; THIS CEREMONY MARKS THE
END OF HIS SIX-WEEK INITIATION
PROCESS.
IT'S ESTIMATED THAT THERE MAY BE
AS MANY AS 250,000 TRADITIONAL
HEALERS IN SOUTH AFRICA, AND
EVERY WEEK MORE AND MORE
INITIATES JOIN THEIR RANKS.
IT'S GONE ON LIKE THIS FOR
GENERATIONS AND GENERATIONS, AND
NOW THE SOUTH AFRICAN GOVERNMENT
WANTS TO BRING TRADITIONAL
MEDICINE INTO THE MODERN ERA.
SOUTH AFRICA IS NOW PUSHING NEW
REGULATIONS FOR TRADITIONAL
HEALERS, RECOMMENDED BY THE
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION,
INCLUDING A CERTIFICATION
PROCESS FOR ALL NEW HEALERS.
THEY WILL HAVE TO SUBMIT DETAILS
RELATED TO THEIR SESSIONS WITH
PATIENTS, A MINIMUM AGE OF 18
YEARS OLD, AND PAYING AN ANNUAL
LICENSING FEE TO THE GOVERNMENT.
BRUCE MBEDZI IS THE ACTING
DIRECTOR RESPONSIBLE FOR
TRADITIONAL MEDICINE IN SOUTH
AFRICA'S HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
>> IT'S A MATTER OF MOVING IT
FROM AN INFORMAL SECTOR TO A
FORMAL SECTOR.
IF WE ARE FORMALIZING THE
SECTOR, WE NEED TO REGULATE THE
SECTOR.
>> Reporter: AFTER THE
GOVERNMENT PROPOSED THE
REGULATIONS LAST YEAR, SANGOMAS
TOOK TO THE STREETS IN PROTEST.
>> THEY TELL YOU ABOUT HAVING A
LOGBOOK, FOR INSTANCE, WHERE YOU
DISCLOSE CERTAIN ASPECTS OF YOUR
HEALING.
AND I FIND THAT VERY FUNNY
BECAUSE I DON'T THINK ANY DOCTOR
IN ANY PRACTICE ACROSS THE WORLD
WOULD DISCLOSE HIS LOGBOOK.
IT'S A BREACH OF CONFIDENTIALITY
BETWEEN THE CLIENT AND THE
PATIENT.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS WE ARE NOT
HAPPY ABOUT AS TRADITIONAL
HEALERS IS, THEY ARE PUTTING AN
AGE FOR BEING AN INITIATE.
IT SAYS YOU CANNOT INITIATE
PRIOR TO 18 YEARS.
NOW, I KNOW A LOT OF PEOPLE THAT
ARE GOOD TRADITIONAL HEALERS
BETWEEN THE AGES OF 12 AND 16.
>> Reporter: DR. DANIEL NCIYANA,
THE FORMER EDITOR OF THE "SOUTH
AFRICAN JOURNAL FOR MEDICINE,"
SUPPORTS THE REGULATIONS FOR
HEALERS.
>> I DON'T SYMPATHIZE WITH THEM,
AND I KNOW THAT THEY ARE REALLY
MOTIVATED BY COMMERCIAL... BY
GREED, BASICALLY, BY COMMERCIAL
INTERESTS.
THEY JUST DON'T WANT TO BE
SUBJECTED TO THE SCRUTINY THAT
COMES WITH REGULATION.
>> Reporter: NCIYANA BELIEVES IN
THE IDEA OF CERTIFICATION BUT
WORRIES HIS COUNTRY CURRENTLY
HAS LITTLE MEANS TO ENFORCE IT.
>> THAT SOUNDS VERY REASONABLE,
BUT THERE ARE NO TRAINING
PLACES, THERE ARE NO COLLEGES
FOR TRADITIONAL HEALING, SO
WHERE DO YOU START?
>> Reporter: COMPLICATING
MATTERS IS THE TREND OF
TRADITIONAL HEALERS, MANY FROM
OTHER COUNTRIES, WHO SOUTH
AFRICANS CONSIDER TO BE
IMPOSTORS OVERCHARGING FOR THEIR
SERVICES.
>> THEY TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
TRUST THAT PEOPLE INVEST IN THE
HEALERS, IN THE COMMUNITY, AND
THEY EXPLOIT THAT.
YOU KNOW, IN THE OLD DAYS WHEN I
WAS GROWING UP, PAYMENT WAS NOT
A MAJOR ISSUE.
>> Reporter: TRADITIONAL HEALERS
SAY THOSE BOGUS TRADITIONAL
HEALERS HURT THEIR CREDIBILITY
AND ARE THE ONES THE SOUTH
AFRICAN GOVERNMENT SHOULD CRACK
DOWN ON.
>> BECAUSE IT'S SO WIDESPREAD,
AND IT'S SO DAMNING FOR US, AND
IT GIVES US A BAD NAME BECAUSE
ALL SORTS OF THINGS ARE
HAPPENING.
PEOPLE ARE DYING.
>> Reporter: MARLIN McKAY IS A
FAMILY DOCTOR WITH 20 YEARS OF
EXPERIENCE WORKING IN SOUTH
AFRICA'S BLACK TOWNSHIPS THAT
WERE ESTABLISHED DURING THE
APARTHEID ERA.
HE SAYS THE SANGOMAS' PRACTICES
GO AGAINST EVERYTHING HE HAS
EVER BEEN TAUGHT.
PROPER DIAGNOSIS, HE SAYS,
INVOLVES A PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
AND DETAILED BLOOD TESTS.
>> SO, YES, I AM VERY, VERY
SKEPTICAL, AND I DON'T SEE ANY
WAY THAT SOMEONE CAN MAKE A TRUE
SCIENTIFIC DIAGNOSIS BASED ON
THROWING A FEW BONES AROUND.
>> Reporter: DR. McKAY ALSO SAYS
THE RECENT RISE OF BOGUS
TRADITIONAL HEALERS HAS MADE
THINGS EVEN WORSE.
>> IT'S DIFFICULT FOR THE
COMMUNITIES OUT THERE TO
ASCERTAIN OR TO KNOW WHO IS
BETTER, WHO IS GOOD, WHO CAN BE
TRUSTED, AND WHO ISN'T WORTHY TO
BE TRUSTED.
AND I THINK THERE'S THE
FINANCIAL INCENTIVE; IT'S AN
EASY WAY OF MAKING MONEY.
PEOPLE ARE DESPERATE, PEOPLE ARE
GULLIBLE, AND A LOT OF PEOPLE AT
THE END OF THE DAY WILL BELIEVE
ANYTHING THAT THEY FEEL WILL
HELP THEM TO GET BETTER.
>> Reporter: BRUCE MBEDZI AT THE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH SAYS THAT
IS A KEY FACTOR DRIVING THESE
INITIATIVES.
>> SO, THERE'S A NEED FOR THE
SECTOR TO BE REGULATED, AND THEN
WE KNOW WHO ARE THE REAL
TRADITIONAL HEALTH PRACTITIONERS
AND TAKE OUT ALL THE CHARLATANS
AND FLY-BY-NIGHTERS.
>> Reporter: THE PROTESTS BY
MAINSTREAM SANGOMAS PRESSURED
SOUTH AFRICA'S GOVERNMENT TO
ALLOW MORE TIME FOR COMMENTS ON
THE PROPOSED REGULATIONS,
REGULATIONS THAT YOUNGER
SANGOMAS LIKE ZANDILA NKOSI
ACCEPT ARE INEVITABLE.
>> BUT WE ARE SAYING "TALK TO
US, AND WE WILL HELP YOU WRITE
THE REGULATIONS," NOT THE OTHER
WAY AROUND.
>> Reporter: STILL, THERE MAY BE
A GENERATION GAP.
OLDER SANGOMAS LIKE MBEREGENE
MAADA, A TRADITIONAL HEALER FOR
25 YEARS, BELIEVE HIS PRACTICES
SHOULD NOT BE REGULATED.
>> BECAUSE I KNOW WHAT IS IN ME.
GOVERNMENT DOES NOT KNOW WHAT
I DO AND HOW I DO IT.
SO, HOW DO YOU REGULATE THAT?
HOW DO YOU REGULATE A THING THAT
YOU DON'T KNOW?
>> Reporter: BUT THE GOVERNMENT
INTENDS TO PUSH FORWARD.
IT WILL CONTINUE TO HEAR
RECOMMENDATIONS UNTIL APRIL;
AFTER THAT, IT WILL BEGIN WORK
TO FINALIZE THE REGULATIONS
BEFORE THE END OF THE YEAR.
>> Stewart: RETURNING TO THE
STORY OF THE SUICIDE BOMBING IN
ISTANBUL, TURKEY, THE WHITE
HOUSE SAID TONIGHT THAT TWO U.S.
CITIZENS WERE AMONG THE DEAD.
THE NATION OF BANGLADESH TODAY
FORMALLY ASKED THE F.B.I. FOR
SOME HELP IN SOLVING ONE OF THE
BIGGEST CYBER HEISTS IN HISTORY.
IT SEEMS CROOKS HACKED THE
COUNTRY'S ACCOUNT AT THE FEDERAL
RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK LAST
MONTH AND WITHDREW MORE THAN
$80 MILLION.
THE MONEY WAS TRANSFERRED TO AN
ACCOUNT IN THE PHILIPPINES.
AND IN A SIGN OF THE TIMES, POPE
FRANCIS IS NOW ON INSTAGRAM.
TODAY, HE JOINED THE POPULAR
ONLINE PLATFORM, AND HE'S
ALREADY ATTRACTED MORE THAN
900,000 FOLLOWERS, AND THAT
NUMBER IS GROWING.
THIS ISN'T THE POPE'S FIRST
FORAY IN SOCIAL MEDIA; HIS
TWITTER ACCOUNT HAS ALMOST
NINE MILLION FOLLOWERS.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M ALISON STEWART.
GOOD NIGHT.